# Blumenstock's Humbler Data Science Response

In his article “Don’t Forget People in the Use of Big Data for Development”, Josh Blumenstock expands on the potential advantages and disadvantages of implementing big data in the developing world and how to move forward. He begins with the promising opportunities that big data provides. Using algorithms intended for social media, researchers have been able to determine much more about a population than who is friends with who. With the ownership of a mobile phone, people who previously would be unable to access financial services can now receive a credit score. Through advertisement software that detect “digital signatures of poverty” humanitarians can better match resources to those who need it and researchers have been able to develop various data trend maps much more efficiently. 
	Blumenstock then identifies four potential down sides to using data in this way. While the programs created using this data seem to be created with the best intentions, there could always be negative effects that researchers didn’t account for. Because this method is so new and ever evolving, validating the information has been difficult. The algorithms themselves can be biased, specifically those that have been used from google maps and other apps that require an individual to have a smart phone, an expense that many cannot afford. Lack of regulation, especially in developing countries where the collection of this data has the most potential to help those in need, is another very real problem and is leaving many vulnerable to the overreach of governments and big tech. 
	Blumenstock concludes his article with optimism providing solutions to the above concerns. To validate the incoming data, these new systems should work in tandem with the old not replace them. Customizing existing and creating new algorithms so that they operate specifically for the data trying to be collected instead of piggy backing off of existing unrelated algorithms could mitigate various of the unintended problems. Collaboration between the private sector and people who are familiar with the issues of the people is needed to best develop ways to help. 
	I agree with Anna Raymond that in many circumstances good intent is not enough. When dealing with problems that significantly impact people lives, you have to make sure that every aspect of the proposed solution is considered and researched. I also agree with Nira Nair’s statement on transparency. The more transparent a process is, the more outside input and perspectives can be obtained on what is and isn’t working. Kayla Seggelke makes a great point regarding the “balancing act” that happens in this field. The impending need of modernization in developing nations can be such a driving force that it leaves populations vulnerable to becoming heavily dependent on outside resources. Trying to strike a balance between helping citizens now and protecting their future freedom is a very daunting and almost impossible task. 
