# After Dan's lecture, I would like to reinstill a bit of empirical optimism regrading the progress of humanity. Despite the very real difficulties data scientists, humanitarians, developers, and other leaders face, progress is being made over large time scales.
## Go to this website (a supplement to Peter Diamandis's 2012 book "Abundance") which illustrates various forms of progress across multiple dimensions of human well-being. Pick a topic heading. Write a description of each of the trends you see, i.e., for each figure. Do you think each trend actually represents progress? If not, why do you think? Finally, with Dan and A. Sen in mind, what do you think could be barriers to progress in each topic? (another way to think about this is: why do you think progress hasn't occurred even more rapidly?) 

I picked increasing energy abundance. In the first and seventh graphs, there is a trend of decreasing prices for solar energy. This does show inovation and progress in the developement of cleaner energy. In the second graph, it is shown that wind and solar's share in total electricity is growing. This shows progress that the world asa whole is slowly starting to consume in a more ecofriendly manner. The third graph shows the rapidly decreasing price of an electric car battery, and the tenth graph shows that as more electric vehicles are being bought the cost is decreasing. Both of these graphs show progress in making electric cars cheaper and a more available to a wider range of consumers, thus cutting even more carbon emissions. The next graph shows a significant increase in money being invested in renewable energy. The more money funding these innovations, the better they can be developed and then cost less for consumers, making it easier to implement. The eigth graph shows the exponential growth in the amount of solar energy being produced annually. This is a good sign that not only is solar energy working, but its being used more and more each year. The next graph shows percent of houses with electricity and the cost of electricity per kWh in the US, with the percent of houses with electricity greatly increasing as cost decreases. This shows development on a civilian scale, more people having access and the means to afford this standard, which in regards to Sen, is a true mark of development. The eleventh graph shows the dramatic decrease in price per watt of energy. This shows development because at a lower cost more people can afford, raising standard of the country as a whole. The last graph illustrates the increasing affordability of ecofriendly energy resources, with solar being cheaper han nuclear, coal and gas, and wind being even more afforable than that as the cheapest option. 

The trends in all of these graphs show a great deal of progress and reflect very positively on the future of green energy. Barriers to this overall progress include financial constrants, people's willingness (more specifically heir lack there of) to change, the infrastructure to support this, and convincing people that this is the best option going foward. However, based on the projections and trends of the graphs, the future of ecofrendly energy looks very promising.
