# Our World in Data
## Similar to 9/30's essay, write what topic (or graph(s)) you are looking at. Describe what you see. Are there trends? If so, what are they? Does anything surprise you? Where possible, connect what you see to previous readings, discussions, or your experiences.

The topic I chose to look at is employment in agriculture. The first graph I looked at shows the share of the labor force working in agriculture from 1300 to today for Poland, Italy, France, the Nethlerlands, and England. There is a pretty distinct trend in this graph of a slow decline u until the 1800s, and then a sharp decline from then til present day. This does not surprise me because the data aligns with the industrial reveolution in europe, which vastly increased the countries ablities to farm on a larger scale and to use more of the labor force for different things. 

The second graph I looked at was a world map showing the share of agricultural landowners who are female. The information in this graph did surprise me because there is no regional or continental patterns, and instead has great variation across the globe. Some of the countries with the highest rates of female ownership include Lithuania, Latvia, Botswanna, and Italy. And some with the lowest rates include Iran, Switzerland, Saudi Arabia, and the Netherlands. This shows that there is no correlation between development and the perfect female ownership. 

The last graph I looked at was another world map, this time showing the agriculture value added per worker in 2017. This is calculated as the total agricultural value over the number of employed in agriculture. There are clear trends shown based on development, the more developed countries having a higher productivity rate and therefore higher values added per worker than in developing countries. However a specific statics for some of the countries did surprise me. For example, I was surprised to see that Suriname had a ag value added that was higher than the US and that Argentina's ag value added per worker was almost four times bigger than that of the US. 
