# From what you know about your prospective major, what is a permanent or semi-permanent way the pandemic has affected your field of study or an aspect of culture or society related to your field? Do you believe the change is a net-positive or negative for society and why? What recommendations (if any) would you have for your field moving forward on the issue?
Remote work has permanently shifted the business industry, with many firms predicting that some form of a hybrid in-person and remote workforce will last well into the future. I think that this could be net positive for society if existing employees have a say in whether their jobs are fully remote or just partially. I do think there are some over arching positives to remote work. One positive might be that parents will get to potentially have more time with their kids. Whether that comes from more flexibility of their schedule or because they are physically still near them at home, this will have a positive effect on family life as a whole. Another positive might be that this work schedule allows employees more opportunities to travel because remote employees can "clock-in" wherever. But these positives and others are only significant if they don’t come at a cost of the quality of work being done and the well being of employees. Depending on the job, some can benefit from being fully remote. But I think it’s important to not force all jobs fully remote. Collaboration and the social aspect of a workplace is often much better in person, the lack of which can greatly impact productivity. Having a separation between home and work is also important for many people, especially those in high intensity jobs where a work-life balance is already hard to achieve. And some jobs are just easier to complete in the workplace. I think hybrid work schedules will be the most overall beneficial. 
