# What are your general thoughts on government and private company utilization of technologies that are able to recognize a face and/or match a human face from a digital image or a video frame against a database of faces? What advantages or benefits could/do such technologies provide? What role (if any) should a government play in regulating their use by individuals or companies?
Personally, I believe that the government should only be allowed to utilize facial recognition software under certain circumstances and that private companies should not be allowed to use it at all. When it comes to maters of national security, law enforcement, and public safety, facial recognition technology can provide crucial information. It can provide leads, narrow down suspects, and help track terrorists. In this instance it is being used to keep us safe. However, the government should not ever rely solely on this technology, especially when used as court evidence, as it can be inaccurate or misleading. Outside of this capacity, I believe facial recognition software is invasive. The government should not be allowed to use this technology to spy on civilians. Facial recognition data itself opens the door to a bunch of negatives. Ultimately the data gets stored in servers making it vulnerable to hacking. This can have disastrous consciences including identity theft. Once obtained by a private company, the data could be used for a bunch of different things without your consent. They could share or, even worse, sell said data to a third party who would then be allowed to recognize and track you, all without your knowledge. These companies would be profiting off of your face and you’d be none the wiser. I don’t know what the best route would be for regulating this technology, but I do believe it should not just be allowed to exist freely. 
