# Human development has been described by Selim Jahan (head of the UNDP program) as “development of the people (capital), for the people (translated to the lives of people) and by the people (people are not only receiving but active participant in the process).” How have we done as a humanity to fulfill this hope originally manifested through the Gettysburg address? Does data science have a role to play in advancing the human condition? What role does complexity play in advancing our understanding of global human development processes and their multitude of dimensions? In order to predict valuable solutions to some of the world’s most intractable problems, will combined domain expertise from the perspective of computer science & statistics with global human development be sufficient, or is a new integrated paradigm needed? What hope do we have in selecting the best future path for humanity?

I believe that humanity as a whole has been making a lot of strides toward achieving this goal. Since the Gettysburg address was delivered there has been a major global shift towards people centered forms of government. Many countries have abolished their monarchies or ruling class, while the surviving ones have evolved into purely ceremonial roles instead of positions of power. They are hundreds of organizations dedicated to fighting for people’s rights and freedoms at every scale from worldwide to the local level. While there is still a lot to be done, I think that the world is on a positive trajectory towards achieving that goal. 

Data science plays a large role in advancing the human condition. Data from all walks of life is being collected constantly. This information isn’t bounded to only one use, but instead can be used in a variety of different ways. Humanitarian problem solvers can use data to help in so many ways, like natural disaster relief and better distribution of aid, and to do all of it in a timelier way than before.  Getting the data is the trickier side to this equation. However, in Blumenstock’s article “Don’t Forget People in the Use of Big Data for Development”, he outlines how some big companies have started sharing their data with these organizations. For example, through information from Facebook, researchers were able to give people credit scores who would otherwise be turned away from a bank. Data can open so many doors not previously possible when people are motivated to help other people. 

Combining experts in computer science & statistics with experts in global human development is a great way to start the conversation about many of the world’s toughest questions. But I don’t think it should stop there. When problem solving, there is always value in adding more prospectives. The more diversity of thought and experience a group has, the more likely they are to come up with the best possible solutions. Especially with issues that have such a great impact on people’s lives, making sure every possible detail and potential ramification is thoroughly thought out to prevent a solution turning into another problem. 

I have a lot of hope that we are on a good path for humanity. The youth of the world are not only more connected with each other than ever before but have grown up with this connection and therefore understand, even subconsciously, from a young age that we are all people of this earth together. This has built a generation that wants to and is good at collaborating with each other. Technology has also made this generation much more aware of the problems that we face as a society, which is the first, and in my opinion hardest, step towards solving those problems. There is amazing technology already developed and more developing every day that properly harnessed can do so much good for this world. No one is forcing these big companies to share their data or algorithms; they are doing it because they know good can come from it. That is a great indicator that this can be done and that it will be done. 
